Visualization:
Visualization enables us to communicate insights and findings to stakeholders in a more compelling and understandable way. 
It allows us to tell a story with data, making it easier for stakeholders to understand and act on the information presented. 
Visualization helps us identify trends and data patterns that might otherwise be difficult to see. 
We can gain new insights and make informed decisions by examining data over time or across different dimensions. 
Presenting data in a more easily understood and interpreted way enables us to identify opportunities, spot potential problems, 
and make more informed choices. 

Line Chart shows trends of the variable.

Bar Chart
Bar Chart is used for comparising values.
a bar chart is a type of plot where the length of each bar is proportional to the value of the item that it represents.
You can create a bar chart using Matplotlib representing the total immigration from Iceland to Canada.

Scatter plot
a scatter plot displays values pertaining to typically two variables against each other.
The process of creating a scatter plot involves importing matplotlib to visualize a large set of data.
Scatter plot is used to explain relationship b/w two continous variables. Explore complex data, detect outliers.

Box Plot
box plot visualize summary statistics. Identify outliers.
a box plot is a way of statistically representing given data distribution through five main dimensions. 
The five main dimensions are minimum, first quartile, median, third quartile and maximum.
You can create a box plot using Matplotlib.
Pie chart
A pie chart is a circular statistical graphic divided into segments to illustrate numerical proportion. 
The process of creating a pie chart involves involves importing Matplotlib to represent a large set of data over a period of time.
 
Histogram
Histogram graphical representation of dataset distribution. Represents data count in each interval(Frequency). 
Partitions numeric data into bins. Count the no of data points.
a histogram is a way of representing the frequency distribution of a numeric data set. 
To generate a histogram on Matplotlib, you import Matplotlib as mpl and its scripting interface is plt. 
You can call the plot function on the data frame with kind parameter assigned as hist. 
You can use the NumPy library to create bins for the histogram representation.


Plot libraries:
Matplotlib
pandas
seaborn
folium (for geospatial data visuaization) builds interactive and customizable maps.
Plotly(create every plots in a dashboard.
Pywaffle(used to generate waffle/donut charts etc).

Matplotlib
backend layer
artist layer
scripting layer

Waffle Chart
Waffle charts are a visualization technique that represent categorical data in the form of square tiles or cells. These resemble a grid of equal-sized squares, with each square representing a specific value or category. 
The size or color of the squares indicate the magnitude or proportion of each category.
Waffle charts effectively show the proportion or percentage of different categories within an overall composition. The grid-like structure of waffle charts makes it easy to understand and interpret data even for nontechnical audiences.
You can use waffle charts for market share analysis, 
demographic representation, 
project progress tracking, 
budget allocation, 
survey responses,
election results, and 
product sales analysis.

Word Cloud
the areas in which we can employ word cloud.
These include social media analysis, 
customer feedback analysis, 
content analysis, market research, 
resume or job description analysis.

matplotlib.backend_bases.FigureCanvas (encompasses the area onto which the figure is drawn.
matplotlib.backend_bases.Renderer (draws on FigureCanvas)
matplotlib.backend_bases.Event (handles keyboard strokes and mouse clicks) 

Area plot
uses: Tracking stock market performance
display population demographics
display the distriution of resources

an area plot depicts cumulated totals using numbers or percentages over time. 
The process of creating an area plot involves importing Matplotlib and calling the plot function on the dataframe with kind parameter assigned as area. 
Area plots provide a visually appealing and intuitive way to showcase the relationship and proportion of multiple variables in a single chart.


Folium
Folium is a powerful data visualization library in Python that was built primarily to help people visualize geospatial data. 
With Folium, you can create a map of any location in the world using latitude and longitude values. 
You can also create a map and superimpose markers and clusters on top of the map for interesting visualizations, 
you can also create maps of different styles, 
such as street level maps, stamen maps, and a couple of others.

Chloropleth Map
A choropleth map is a thematic map in which areas are shaded or patterned in proportion to the measurement of the statistical variable. 
When creating a choropleth map, Folium requires a GeoJSON file that includes geospatial data of the region. 
The Mapbox Bright Tileset displays the name of every country when used on a map. 